Chapter 6 Notes


Bit - I/O 
Byte - 8 bits 
Word Length - Number of bytes(bits) used in each word in a CPU.
    -In this case, our Word Length is 2 bytes.
Accumulator === ACC === A register

OpCode Instructions

OpCode      Meaning of Instructions
0000        Stop execution                              // Stops the program
1100        Load word into the A register               // loads one word (two bytes) into A register
1101        Load byte into the A register               // Like above but only loads a single bye into A register
1110        Store word from the A register              //A Stores the entire contents of the A register in to the memory location specified in the operand. 
1111        Store byte from the A register
0111        Subtract the operand from the A register 


Program Example:
This example program will print "Hi" to the screen using assembly language.
Requires 5 instructions to achive:
    Load "H" into ACC
    Store byte in ACC into Output
    Load "i" into ACC
    Store byte in ACC into Output
    Stop program

Once again remember each of these steps uses the Fetch-Execute Cyle, which looks like this:
1.Fetch the instruction from the memory location specified by the Program Counter.
2. Decode the instruction and update the Program Counter.
3. Get the operand (if needed).
4. Execute the instruction.

6.4 Assembly Languages

Assembly Language - The lowest level of human friendly programming languages. 
    Where latin character words are used to describe each of a computers functions (or instructions).
    There are as many variations of Assembly Languages as there are CPUs.
Assembler - A program that translates Assembly Language to Binary for the computer to digest.
Assembler Directives - Instructions to the translating program.
Branch - An instruction that indicates which instruction to process next (like a jump).
Label - A name given to a memory location, which can be used as an opperand. Like a variable in high level languages.

6.5 Expressing Algorithms

Algorithm - A logical sequence of tasks used to solve a problem.
Pseudocode - A combination of statements, english and math used to describe an outline for a function or algorithm later to be used in code.

6.6 Testing

Test pla - A doc that specifies how a program is tested.
Code coverage (clear-box) testing - Testing a program or part of one based on covering all the statements in the code.
Data coverage (black-box) testing - Testing a program or subprogram based on the possible input values, treating the code as a black box.
Test Plan Implementation - Using the test cases specified in a test plan to verify that a program outputs the predicted results.


