10.1 Roles of an Operating System

    Application Software : Programs that help us solve real world problems.

    System Software : Programs that manahe a computer system and interact with hardware.

    Operating System : System software that manages computer reasources and provides an interface for system interaction.

    Multiprogramming : The technique of keeping multiple programs in main memory at the same time, competing for the CPU.

    Memory Management : The act of keeping track of how and where programs are loaded in main memory.

    Process : The dynamic representation of a program during executing. 

    Process Management : The act of keeping rrack of information of active processes. 

    CPU Scheduling : The act of determining ehich process in memory is given access to the CPU so that it may execute. 

    Timesharing : A system in which CPU time is shared among multiple interavtive users at the same time.

    Virtual Machine : The illusion created by a timesharing system that each user has a dedicated machine. 

    Mainframe : A large multiuse computer often associated with early timesharing systems.

    Dumb Terminal : A monitor and keyboard that allowed the user to access the mainframe computer in early timesharing systems.

    Real-time System : A system in which response time is crucial given the nature of the application domain. 

    Response time : The time delay between receiving a stimulus and producing a response. 



10.2 Memory Management 

    Logical Address : A reference to a stored value relative to the program making the reference. 

    Physical Address : An actual address in the main memory device. 

    Address binding : The mapping from a logical address to a physical address. 

    Single Contiguous Memory Management : The approach to memory management in which a program is loaded into one continuous area of memory. 

    Fixed-Partition Technique : The memmory management technique in which memory is divided into a specific number of partitions into which programs are loaded. 

    Dynamic-Partition technique : The memory management technique in which memory is divided into partitions as needed to accommodate programs. 

    Base Register : A register that holds the beginning address of the current partition. 

    Bounds Register : A register that holds the length of the current partition. 

    Paged Memory Technique : A memory management technique in which processes are divided into fixed-size pages and stored in memory frames when loaded.

    Frame: A fixed-size portion of main memory that holds a process page.

    Page : A fixed size protion of a process that is stored into a memory frame. 

    Page-Mao Table (PMT) : The table used by the operating system to keep track of the page/frame relationships.

    Demand Paging : An extension to paged memory management in which pages are brought into memory only when referenced (on demand). 

    Page Swap : Bringing in one page from secondary memory, possibly causing another to be removed. 

    Virtual Memory : The illusion that there is no restriction on program size because and entire process need not be in memory at the same time. 

    Thrashing : Inefficient processing caused by constant page swapping. 



10.3 Process Management 

    Process States : The conceptual stages through which a process moves as it is manahed by the operating system. 

    Process Control Block (PCB) : The data structure used by the operating system to manage information about a process. 

    Context Switch : The exchange of register information that occurs when one process is removed from the CPU and another takes its place. 



10.4 CPU Scheduling 

    Nonpreemptive Scheduling : CPU scheduling that occurs when the currently executing process gives up the CPU voluntarily.

    Preemptive Scheduling : CPU scheduling that occurs when the operating system decides to favour another process, preempting the currently executing process. 

    Turnaround Time : The CPU-scheduling metric that measures the elapsed time between a process's arrival and it's ultimate completion. 

    First Comes First Served Scheduling :

    Shortest Job Next Scheduling : 

    Round Robin Scheduling : 

    Time Slice : The amount of time given to each process in the round-robin CPU scheduling algorithm. 




